# RoboProj5
Project 5 of the Udacity Robotics Software Engineer NanoDegree.

## What Does This Do?
A simulated turtlebot robot navigates to pickup and drop-off locations in a Gazebo world environment. A marker is 
displayed at the pickup location until the robot reaches it, and reappears when the robot subsequently reaches the
drop-off location.

Mapping: The map used by the robot for navigation is generated with the ROS ```gmapping``` package, which uses graph slam to
simultaneously localize the robot and create an occupancy grid for the environment. This process can be achieved by
running the ```test_slam.sh``` script in ```/catkin_ws/src/scripts``` and navigating manually with the keyboard via
the ```keyboard_teleop``` node.

Localization: is achieved using Adaptive Monte Carlo Localization (AMCL) - or a particle filter - with knowledge of
the map generated by SLAM in the previous step. The ```amcl_demo``` node subscribes to the ```map``` topic.

Path planning: the custom ```pick_objects``` node communicates with the ROS navigation stack. When a goal is sent, 
a ```SimpleActionClient``` uses Djikstra's Algorithm to find a path to the goal. The planner is subscribed to the
```map``` topic.

In order to carry out the task of navigating to pickup and drop-off locations, the ```pick_objects``` node publishes
the x, y, z coordinates of the marker to the "marker_position" topic when the a goal is sent to the navigation stack. 
The ```add_markers``` node subscribes to the "marker_position" topic and either adds or deletes a marker, depending on
the AMCL pose of the robot. ```add_markers``` subscribes to the "amcl_pose" topic. If the AMCL pose is within a tolerance
radial distance from the marker location, the marker is either deleted (at the pickup zone) or added (at the drop-off zone).

## Dependencies

ROS: Install Robot Operating System (ROS) by following these instructions: http://wiki.ros.org/Installation
   * Follow the instructions for a Desktop-Full Install.

Gazebo: Follow the instructions for your environment at http://gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=install

Ubuntu one line installation:
```bash
$ curl -sSL http://get.gazebosim.org | sh
```

## Installation

Step 1:
Clone the repository into your workspace
```bash
$ git clone https://www.github.com/joestilin/RoboProj5
```

Step 2:
Initialize a catkin workspace inside src
```bash
$ cd /RoboProj5/catkin_ws/src
$ catkin_init_workspace
```
Step 3:
Move up to the catkin workspace root, build the package, and source the environment
```bash
$ cd ..
$ catkin_make
$ source devel/setup.bash
```

## Usage

1. Make the script ```home_service.sh``` executable and run it
```bash
$ cd /RoboProj5/catkin_ws/src/scripts
$ chmod +x ./home_service.sh
$ ./home_service.sh
```



